Contact	Russell Moran (russell@blocbuilding.com.au)
Employer	ADG Consulting Engineers
State/Province	Queensland (Australia)
Title	Senior ESD and Mechanical Building Services Engineer (Full-time)
Employment Dates	Jan. 2016 — Jul. 2016
Duration	100% (6 months)
Tasks and Duties
I was responsible certifying Engineer high-rise residential buildings in Queensland and the Northern Territory of Australia with commercial development at ground level and multi level underground parking basements. I was responsible for both environmentally sustainable design (ESD) as well as heating, ventilation and air-conditioning (HVAC) integration into the design team of each project. I often provided expert assessment of computational fluid dynamic (CFD) analysis of basement carpark exhausts and compact installations of rooftop condensing units. I provided façade engineering and acoustic/thermal glazing reports as part of my ESD responsibilities. I planned and conducting mechanical engineering projects in high-rise construction developments, maintaining high level client satisfaction. I was mentor of a growing team of engineering work experience students from local universities, resulting in recruitment of many of them as employees.
I was Registered Professional Engineer of Queensland and the Northern Territory of Australia responsible for ensuring environmentally sustainable design integration and statutory compliance of mechanical building services for Alliance Design Group (ADG). I managed to streamline workflow by extraction of heating and cooling loads from CSIRO simulation engine used under the Nationwide Household Energy Rating Scheme (NatHERS). I trained my team to avoid redundant simulations, and to extract specification of building service plant from runs of NatHERS software - lowering capital expense on plant, smaller ceiling space requirements, and more economical operating expenses for the occupants of high rise developments. This also reduced engineer's workload previously duplicated by running Carrier Air-Conditioning Method to Estimate Loads (CAMEL) on residential developments.
Representative Projects
Health Hub Doctors, Morayfield. I designed the HVAC for a regional medical centre near Caboolture, north of Brisbane, including associated tenancies, including statutory fresh air supply, food court exhaust and smoke control as well as chilled water. My efforts to promote by developing design of chilled water service, complete with energy metering to recover costs from tenant specialist surgeries did not prove to be as competitive as installing individual rooftop condensing units. So with the client's instruction I redesigned and documented HVAC with split systems serving individual clients. As this project was a repurposing of a tilt-slab former Bunnings (similar to US Home-Depot Hardware superstore) with added development of mezzanine I was required to work very closely with the client's Architect and Structural Engineer to produce code-compliant ESD & HVAC design. The structural engineer and I spend additional time developing the effective approach to installing rooftop plant with a long reach crane.

Arbour on Charlotte, Chermside, Brisbane. I provided code-compliant ESD & HVAC design of a multi-story residential development on a very constrained parcel of land. My work included analysis and design of underground carpark and separated apartment exhausts, as well as floor-by-floor lobby smoke control and stairwell pressurization.

Nero Newstead, 69-71 Doggett St, New Farm, Brisbane. I mentored junior staff, but took charge on complex issues such as a wood-fired pizza oven in the amenities area, in the design of ESD & HVAC for a multi-story residential development with retail on the ground floor and underground parking.

Walan Apartments, Scott St, Kangaroo Point. I took charge of ESD and HVAC design of Walan high-rise development at #2 Scott Street and restoration of the heritage listed house at #11 Scott Street. As in all my ESD work I applied Nationwide household energy rating scheme (NATHERS) software and associated sections of the National Construction Code to ensure compliance, but this was challenging as the Architect had recently arrived from the UK and so I had to invest a good deal of time educating him on the Australian performance based means to achieve compliance. For example in the case of an exceptionally massive transverse slab I had to consult with the NATHERS code developers to ensure sufficient insulation was provided under that floor.

Student One, 97 Elizabeth St, Brisbane I led detailed value engineering of the 103 meter high façade to assess seasonal balance of passive heating and cooling performance.
