Contact	Christopher Hassall (C.Hassall@leeds.ac.uk)
Employer	University of Leeds
State/Province	England (United Kingdom)
Title	Visiting Research Fellow (Part-time)
Employment Dates	Sep. 2016 — Sep. 2022
Duration	25% (1 year, 6 months)
Tasks and Duties
Visiting Research Fellow, University of Leeds.
Adjunct faculty position, collaborating in paper and research grant writing projects during lockdown. I led International SEEDS Award 2008 for leadership in the Leeds Laboratory project "Transition Engineering Urban Canyons" and published publications
arising. I was named on UK EPSRC decarbonising heating and cooling 2 proposal lead by Professor Jim McQuaid in the School of Earth and Environment. I continued publication arising
from EU Horizon 2020 GeoTech project. I won funding from Priestley International Centre for Climate (UoLeeds) to convene a Transition Engineering workshop on urban heat islands, culminating in me leading a cross-faculty peer reviewed paper that won an award. I collaborated with Manchester University Professor Emeritus Geoff Levermore on established urban heat island monitoring in Yorkshire and globally in ASHRAE TC4.2 Climatic Information Technical Committee
Representative Projects
Peterson EL (2022). Global and local bioclimatic predilections for rebalancing the heating and cooling of buildings. In press Energy and Buildings, 112088. Upon my analysis of over 16-thousand weather stations I passed rigorous international peer-review to publish this paper. I concluded that air-conditioning relies on electricity that isn’t ubiquitous while policies encourage passive alternatives —yet cooling really should respond to occupants’ distress. Here I show where passive measures have been sufficient for comfort and identify local predilections for rebalancing demand between heating and cooling —apportioned by population neighboring meteorological stations. I document that access to air-conditioned shelter has been occasionally indispensable for 21% of population —generally between 20°S and 39°N and below 500 m elevation. Meanwhile I show that reverse-cycle air-source heat-pump/air-conditioning has been a reasonable expectation for 72% of the population. Refocusing on 9493 locations with ≥ 14 years of daily observations, I found stationary heating and cooling demands where 19% of population dwelt. Otherwise, summer cooling demand generally increased while winter heating demand decreased. I provide a repository of over 16-thousand psychrometric charts each plotting up to 34 years of daily conditions, classified my recommended HVAC mode.

Peterson EL (2018). Transition Engineering the water-electricity nexus operating in building services and urban heat islands – Concept Design – is air conditioning really necessary? I presented my developing works at the Third International Conference on Efficient Building Design, 4th October. ASHRAE/AUB, Beirut, Lebanon. At that stage I presented the median representative weather station of each country to illustrate how archives of meteorological observations suggest a preference for different HVAC modes.

Peterson EL, Iuorio O, Berretta C, Hassall C, Cooper T (2018). Transition Engineering urban canyons - Roger Stevens Cooling Pond, Leeds. Sustainable Ecological Engineering Design for Society (SEEDS) Conference, Dublin. From which I won SEEDS award for Contribution to the Natural Environment, developed with funding by University of Leeds Priestley International Centre for Climate. This represents many years I had been monitoring temperature in the urban canyons of Leeds, including blue and green improved sites.
