Contact	Troy Paul Craperi (troy.craperi@aecom.com)
Employer	Mausell (AECOM)
State/Province	Queensland (Australia)
Title	Water Engineer (Part-time)
Employment Dates	Jan. 2002 — Jul. 2002
Duration	75% (5 months)
Tasks and Duties
Concurrent with Adjunct work at James Cook University. I reported to the late Dr Jonathan Harris in consulting for Townsville Port Authority and other Maunsell staff with regard to the redevelopment of Orpheus Island Research Station for James Cook University. My duties on both projects included site surveys and interviewing client representatives to refine scope. On both projects I was tasked to brainstorm and document all conceivable alternatives and therefor to embark on pro/con analysis. My table of alternatives was required to include references to quantitative evidence of performance as well as capital and operating cost estimates. This step was supported by making calls to managers and operators of similar facilities elsewhere. The decision of which alterative to develop was taken In consultation with senior staff as well as client representatives . The forgoing was referrd to as master planning and lead into design development. When given instruction to proceed to design and documentation I proceeded to do so with respect to Water Engineering, I regret that in the case of Orpheus Island I was not able to constructively criticize the client's Mechanical and Electrical consultant's design because I was strictly representing Water Engineering issues in my role at Maunsell's. (Given what we now know about the Water-Energy Nexus I suggest that in future projects clients should ask their various consulting disciplines to comment on each other's work).
Representative Projects
2002 Design of Orpheus Island Research Station redevelopment. I designed water, wastewater, and seawater systems improvements as far as design development, and schematic design of wharf options for further design development by our structural engineers. One of my most consequential impacts on the design development was to replace seawater flush toilets with aerobic composting toilets similar to those used in the adjoining Queensland National Parks. Another major impact of my design development was to resolve the problem of seawater pump cavitation by developing a biofouling management plan for the facility. Another important contribution that I made was to review all historical rainfall records and model the economic rainwater tank storage capacity that was installed in the redevelopment, yet to ensure that on-site reverse osmosis equipment be maintained for the more extreme periods of drought that historically were proven to have occurred thereabouts. My development of pro/con tabulation of alternatives with elaborative references possibly contributed to the facility's novel management practice whereby all visitors are required to be trained on arrival with respect to the water management practices that are necessary to maintain rainwater harvested storage capacity without demanding desalination.

2002 Townsville Port Authority. I tested and reported on operational benchmarking alternative dredge systems. My work followed field investigation of dredge spoil dewatering and land reclamation at the Port of Townsville, and was followed by my researching alternatives to the past practice of dumping within the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. After I identified two plausible systems of extracting dredge spoils out of the hopper barge I procured by hire test demonstrations, benchmarked by my timing the speed of transfer into dump trucks that the client arranged to meet my demonstration. The trucks used on that day were a quantifiable means to measure sludge removal rate, but my schematic design indicated that a slurry pipeline could be added to convey the sludge from the barge unloading quay to the Port Authority's land-reclamation/dewatering area.

2002 Aboriginal community multisport facility in far northwest Queensland. I initially assessed alternatives to resupplying chlorine for Cloncurry swimming pool. Upon delivering the least cost recommendation I was asked to investigate multisport options for outback communities further outback. Given constraints determined that a dry sports court be developed for such communities without electric power and water to support an aquatic swimming complex.
