Contact	Ian Campbell (ian4campbell@gmail.com)
Employer	Victoria University of Technology
State/Province	Victoria (Australia)
Title	Lecturer of Architectural Engineering (Full-time)
Employment Dates	Jun. 2006 — Jun. 2010
Duration	100% (4 years)
Tasks and Duties
I was inaugural Lecturer of Architectural Engineering, Victoria University, School of Architectural, Civil, and Mechanical Engineering, Melbourne. My duties were initially to develop and deliver the final year HVAC and ESD (Environmentally Sustainable Design) subjects, and to develop my research in Building Physics and Environmental Engineering. As I progressed I was asked to lecture Environmental and Ocean Engineering subjects, as well as leading Engineering Students of all disciplines in final year projects. I was rewarded for my eagerness and effectiveness in service with passing probation to secure an on-going position.
I published research on remote sensing atoll bathymetry; generalized rainwater harvesting system reliability; thermal resistance of cool roofs; and an atlas of air-conditioning design temperatures across Australia. I collaborated with other members of staff to mentor students to design and execute retrofit of façades with living walls. I also was encouraged to conduct research on remote sensing atoll bathymetry; generalized rainwater harvesting system reliability across Australia; desalination of brackish groundwater; thermal resistance of cool roofs; and to develop an atlas of air-conditioning design temperature across Australia. I continued to support research as Adjunct Professor in the Institute for Sustainability and Innovation, reporting to Professor Stephen Gray after I resigned as Lecturer of Architectural Engineering June 2010.
Representative Projects
[VAN1011] EXPERIMENTATION AND COMPUTING semester 1 2008, 2009 I was developed and coordinated both WATER and ENERGY modules. To do so I attended train-the-trainer programs of the Victorian and Australian governments, and integrated licensed-training materials into my teaching so that my students could become qualified energy and water auditors. I also designed and supervised construction of portable power meters for use by my student energy auditors. In the course of mentoring my students in managing the data that they collected I taught them to effectively use Matlab software to process and distill useful conclusions for their audits.

[VAC2071] SURVEYING semester 2 2009, 2010 I was curriculum developer adding geomatic engineering in addition to surveying, Consequently I lectured and ran practical sessions for Civil Engineers to obtain site data using GPS (global positioning systems), aerial photography and satellite remote sensing dataset. I further lectured and mentored my students to integrate these datasets together with GIS (Geographical Information Systems) to improve the accuracy of engineering planning and design.

[VAC4082] ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING 2 semester 2 2008 - 2010 I was Unit Coordinator and Lecturer. My teaching surveyed the management and treatment of solid, liquid, gaseous, and acoustic pollution, as well as a module focused on ocean engineering at the end of the semester. The last module included a fieldtrip to a number of ocean and aquacultural engineering sites in the vicinity at the navigational entrance into Port Phillip Bay and the Port of Melbourne. I organized this field trip in coordination with Victorian Government (researchers, regulators, and operators) to create realistic scenarios for students to monitor and prepare assessment reports of environmental impacts and management strategies. Previously I had assigned each student with a different licensed solid waste landfill to provide a desktop (google earth) assessment of ultimate capacity, where as in the ocean engineering fieldtrip the students were required to develop site-visit risk assessments and keep notes of interviews with stakeholder actors to illustrate pro/con assessment of development options.

[VAA3072] HVAC SYSTEMS 2 semester 2 2006 I was unit Coordinator and Lecturer (except 2007 by research grant). I taught hydronic and ductwork system design, reinforced by practical measurements in our on-campus system demonstration laboratory.

[VAA4071] HVAC SYSTEMS 3 semester 1 2007- 2010 I was unit Coordinator and Lecturer of acoustics module 2008-2011. I contracted leading acoustic consultants to assist in development and delivery 2007 while I assisted and took note, before I carried on myself the following years.

[VAA4032] ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE DESIGN 3 semester 2 2006-2010 I was unit Developer, Coordinator, Lecturer and Tutor.

[VAN4011] and [VAN4012] ENGINEERING PROJECT 1 and 2 (teamwork thesis). In 2007 I managed and mentored 7 students, in 2008 8 students), 2009 7 students, and 2010 6 students. These capstone projects increased the employability of my students to embark upon professional engineering careers.

2010 my research output included application of satellite imagery for mapping large coral reef systems in the West Pacific. I had to negotiate strategic targeting as well as donation of proprietary satellite imagery which I had validated in the field with respect to depth and water velocity and collaborated with specialists who classified the coincident habitats.

2009 I collaborated in developing methods for marine conservation planning in consideration of hydrology and oceanographic currents. Besides contributing a simplification of advection and diffusion of larval dispersion I contributed to the development of a management framework focused on connectivity between the terrestrial, marine, and freshwater realms. I particularly convince my co-authors of the importance of recognizing riparian strips and estuaries as essential areas of attention in coastal zone management.

2008 I collaborated in analysis, formulation and dissemination of the effect of roof solar reflectance on the building heat gain. For tropical Australia we derived an equation showing that light-coloured roofs have 30% lower total (air temperature difference and solar-driven) heat gain than dark-coloured roofs. R-values for cooling are derived.

2008 I led a couple of marine biologist co-authors is publishing "Thinking Outside the Reef" in Science (international journal) in response to Hoegh-Guldberg et al. “Coral reefs under rapid climate change and ocean acidification" Hereby we recommended direct action to improve energy efficiency of the built environment, benchmarked against historical practices, attracting many scholarly citations.
